### Freja Kahle Capstone Assessment

Our project is to design and make a simple, board game-esque video game that can be played across the internet. I will be using my experience in game design to help create the project. I’ve also run multiple games of Dungeons and Dragons and hope this helps with the game design. While I’ll be focusing on game design and balance, I’d also like to try working on some aspects of the project which I don’t have previous experience that can be applied. I think I'll find a challenge in the aesthetic design and server programming for the project. To me this project is about combining our team’s talents and interests into a playable, fun, multiplayer game.

Perhaps the most obvious course I’ve taken that will help with this project is the Intro to Game Design (DMC 2167) class I took in spring 2023. This course’s teachings have helped me run my tabletop role playing games and hopefully I can extend them to this project. Another course that I think will help is Operating Systems and Systems Programming (EECE 4029). This course introduced the idea of threading and locks to me and I think that might be a good way to handle the netcode for this project. Finally, Data Structures (CS 2028C) will help inspire the way the game handles and transmits data. Thanks to these UC courses, this project will be completed smoothly.

I have had two co-op experiences. During the first one, EEP of Summer 2023, I attempted to take a board game I had designed during my game design class and create an online version. I used just HTML, CSS, and JS to make it and I was unable to complete the project by myself. Hopefully with more people and more time, I’ll be able to see this project to completion. The skills I learned during the EEP are extremely translatable to this senior project. The second co-op experience I had was a co-op at Alkermes in Wilmington, Ohio summer of 2024. This co-op experience, I developed a lot of skills related to PLCs, which I frankly do not see applying to this project. Maybe I will find some way to apply my new knowledge in machine programming and maintenance, but I highly doubt it.

As for why I am motivated for this project: I love board games. I am a self proclaimed board game fiend. The opportunity to take something I love and combine it with programming and CS is a great motivator for me. It will also be very cool to be able to play this online board game with my friends after it’s complete. I think I’ll start out with the project by firstly playing the board games we’ll be using as the inspiration for the project idea, and looking through any similar games already created or in creation and attempting some imitation while injecting uniqueness through my own creativity.

I expect us to be able to create a working game by the deadline. I’m not sure the game will look great or have music, but I expect it to work, and for it to be fun to play. I’m not much of an artist but if I need to for this project I could learn how to make assets for the project if there’s time. We’ll be able to mark our progress with clear planning. By separating the project into smaller tasks, we’ll be able to use these smaller tasks to mark our progress when they are completed. Once enough of the tasks are completed the project will be completed.
